Now, to come to an end in this course module,
there's one last aspect I wanna touch on
and that's also still related
to permissions kind of
but now permissions with third-party platforms or services.
And to give you a better example,
I'm back here in this project
where we built our custom actions.
And what we did in that section is we built some actions
that would deploy static website code to AWS S3,
which can be used for hosting static websites.
Now, AWS is a cloud services provider.
It's not related to GitHub or GitHub Actions.
It's a different company, a different platform.
Now, in order to successfully send our code
to AWS and its S3 service,
we had to make sure that we provide an ACCESS_KEY_ID
and a SECRET_ACCESS_KEY.
That was used to authenticate the request
that sends our code files, our website files
to AWS for this upload_file action here, for example,
or for this command where we used the AWS CLI.
For these commands,
we had to set these environment variables
and AWS would then look
for these environment variables automatically
and use them to authenticate the requests.
So we're again talking about authenticating requests
but now it's not about requests
to GitHub's API but to the API of other companies
and other platforms.
Now, here we solved the problem
by setting these environment variables to secrets
because the ACCESS_KEY_ID
and the SECRET_ACCESS_KEY especially
are values that shouldn't be exposed
and therefore is storing them in secrets
is a good way of then assigning them
to environment variables.
Still, this approach could be improved.
For one, if we're setting them
to environment variables like this,
we could still end up in some situation,
for example, due to script injection
where those values could be stolen
by some injected code stealing these environment variables
and their values,
which are, of course, the secret values.
So these values, these secret values
are not necessarily 100% secured.
In addition, we, of course, had to create these values
and manually set them up in our repository,
and that is a step we would have to repeat
for all AWS accounts and all GitHub repositories
where we had a similar workflow.
So it is some extra work that must be done.
Another problem is that these keys
in AWS's case then grant full access
to basically all AWS services.
Here we're only using this access
to upload some code by using the CLI
or the upload_file command.
We're only using it to upload some code to S3 specifically
but theoretically, these keys here
would grant us unlimited access,
and that might be a bit more access
than we actually wanna grant.
Especially if you're working in a big company,
your cloud administrators might be hesitant
to give you keys that come with lots
of permissions attached to them.
So that's another problem.
And because of all these problems,
there is a better solution
for authenticating with third-party platforms like AWS
but it's not just about AWS.
We can use an approach called OpenID Connect
to dynamically get permission
for exactly what we need to do
from AWS when we need to do that.
Now, this OpenID Connect approach
is described in greater detail
on GitHub's documentation pages
and they also provide examples for using this approach
with AWS but also other services
like Azure, Google Cloud, and other popular services.
But any third-party platform can support this approach.
The idea simply is that your GitHub Action workflow
actually dynamically requests a permission
from the third-party provider from AWS, for example,
and then that permission is granted if everything
has been set up correctly
but it's only valid for a short amount of time
and it is restricted to the kind of action
that must be performed
and doesn't grant any additional permissions.
So permissions are requested by the workflow dynamically
when they're needed.
That's the idea.
Now, I'll show you how to use this OpenID Connect approach
at the example of AWS
but as mentioned, you could use it with other platforms
and service providers as well.